API Testing Day 2

What is API testing?
API testing is a type of software testing that analyzes an application program interface (API) to verify that it 
fulfills its expected functionality, security, performance and reliability. The tests are performed either directly 
on the API or as part of integration testing.
It is one of the most challenging type of Testing , If we miss any certain cases in API Testing , then it will create 
a big problem in Production ,After full integration it is hard to debug the problem in the Production environment.
    The It self having the Defination.
	
Types of API tests ?
1. Validation testing
Validation testing analyzes API projects based on three distinct sets of criteria: the API's usability as a product, 
its transactional behavior and its operational efficiency. Here are some typical questions asked during validation 
testing:

-Is the API designed in a way that meets its product goals or solves the problem it's supposed to?
-Were there any major coding missteps that would push the API in an unsustainable direction?
-Is the API accessing data in accordance with predefined policies?
-Is the API storing data in accordance with security or compliance rules?
-Would any code alterations improve the API's overall functionality?

2. Functional testing
Functional testing ensures the API performs exactly as it is supposed to. This test analyzes specific functions 
within the codebase to guarantee the API functions within its expected parameters and can handle errors when the 
results are outside the designated parameters.


3. Load testing
Load testing is used to see how many calls an API can handle. This test is often performed after a specific unit 
or codebase is completed to determine whether the theoretical solution can also work as a practical solution when 
acting under a given load.

4. Reliability testing
Reliability testing ensures the API can produce consistent results and the connection between platforms is reliable.

5. Security testing
Security testing attempts to validate the encryption methods the API uses as well as the access control design. 
It includes the validation of authorization checks for resource access and user rights management.

6. Penetration testing
Penetration testing builds on security testing. In this type of test, the API is attacked by a person with limited 
or no knowledge of the software. This enables testers to analyze the attack vector from an outside perspective. 
The attacks used in penetration testing can be limited to specific elements of the API or can target the API in 
its entirety.

7. Fuzz testing
Fuzz testing forcibly inputs huge amounts of random data -- also called noise or fuzz -- into the system, attempting 
to create negative behavior, such as a forced crash or overflow.

8. Unit testing
Unit testing is a testing process in which the smallest testable parts of an application, called units, are individually
 and independently scrutinized for proper operation. The process of unit testing an API includes testing single 
 endpoints with a single request.
 
9. Integration Testing
Integration tests are a type of software testing in which the different units, modules or components of an application 
are tested as a combined entity. Because APIs are used in integrations between two or more pieces of software, an 
integration test analyzes how the API integrates the software.

